My name
is Kelly Loukes, I am a research teacher
at George Street Middle School.
My name is Courtney
Grandy and I am a resource teacher
at George Street Middle School.
So warm up would be when you come in
and enter the math classroom.
It's just the way that you start
your class every day.
So students kind of expect
or know what to expect when they walk in.
They look at the board,
they see their warmup question,
and they get started on it.
So it might not just be
the one question on the board.
You see lots of different questions
or different types of things to be doing.
So there's as much choice as possible
included in the warm questions day.
And in those warm months.
It's really great to offer students.
And so that's all students have something
that they are able to achieve
as a beginning warm up activity
to get to class started.
So there may be an element of writing
and for drawing or,
brainstorming with a friend,
list, making a list
that they can choose from,
that all segments and content.
I would say it's also important
to have different types of questions
as part of the warm up,
even though you're providing choice.
So an example could be up
for simple math questions
that maybe two of them are a little more
challenging than the others.
And then also providing a challenge
or a bonus question on top of those so
students feel like they are accomplishing
something a little extra,
and they usually are able to attempt
no matter what level they are at.
That's so students
do why they think about the concept
that you're going to introduce
in a creative way, or it provides
a review of a concept
that has already been taught
to to go into the
class and the concept slowly.
And like,
or you said, where you'd have students
working at different levels
and who are able to show what they know
best in a different variety of ways,
if you ask them choice and how they,
present that warm up to you.
So it could be a writing prompt,
but instead of writing, perhaps they could
use to draw their answer,
I would in my classroom, I would have
a seating chart.
Everyone would know the seating started,
but once it came to work time,
there were multiple
flexible spots that they could move to
to work with a partner or different group.
Different things that they could work on.
Would be
there would be lots of choices available.
It was a practice activity.
They might choose between moving around
to see different tasks,
or they may choose to do it color
by number, sort of activity at their seat,
or they may choose to do a partner
practice activity instead.
There was always multiple choices
available.
Even if it's a even
if everyone was doing a task
card activity, you could even still have
different task cards at each station.
So they were choosing
from different levels of questions
to be working on,
and they could make that choice,
question to question.
It could be a type of activity where it's
the same answer of a different question.
So there might be different levels
of the questions that they're working
on, different, different questions
from page to page,
but they all have the answer.
So it wouldn't matter who partnered up
or what level they choose to work on.
They are seniors,
so they could still work together.
And as far as flexible seating,
those being a resource teacher
and being
in and out of different classrooms
throughout the day, I feel teachers here
do offer a variety of flexible
seating arrangements.
So there and within each classroom,
there's usually a corner
where students can choose to work or read
or do whatever task is
asked of them by themselves.
There's also desk space
so that they could work with a partner
or a small group, and then the teacher
usually has an area where she
or they can call upon individual students
to come and work with them as well.
A lot of teachers will even set up,
little areas outside of their classroom
that can be closely monitored.
But still offer another avenue of,
space
for students to work on whatever tasks.
I would say
it seems like a bigger thing than it is.
When you think about UDL as a big picture,
it feels like this
really huge thing to implement
and this really big, scary change to me.
But it's actually quite simple
to implement small parts of UDL.
So going back to the warm up,
that's a simple way of here's
some different choices
for you to start your day off.
Most math teachers would have practice
time in their day already,
so it's just providing an extra
couple choices available to students.
So it's not starting from scratch.
It's just kind of tweaking
what you're already doing
and already planning
to have those extra choices available.
And I would say the other part,
especially with the flexible
seating and areas around
the, is to get to know your students.
They
if you ask them or quiz them somehow,
they probably can tell you
they prefer school, or
they prefer to work alone
or with a partner.
And you can easily plan for that
with a quick
seating plan before the activity begins.
So another great strategy, is students
providing some movement,
being in and out of classrooms
as a resource teacher,
I've seen lots of teachers
who planned a specific movement
break within their classroom,
and the students love it.
So whether it be a quick doing that,
they all stand up and play.
Sometimes
it's a minute to run an activity.
Sometimes it's a challenge where
they're asked to try something like that,
and it just allows them.
And the excitement and the team building
and townhouses is amazing.
Other activities I've seen for movement
is, having cards posted around the room.
Could just be a simple
yes no, I'm not sure.
On each wall and the students
are given a question about the content
they're learning or something fun,
and they have to move to that answer.
Around the room that they agree with.
And then they have a group of people
who they can discuss
that answer with them and figure out why
why they chose an answer,
but it allows them to.
My biggest change
that I would see is students
that would specifically be on
an adjusted plan or an accommodated plan,
who used to find school work
very challenging.
Having those choices available
really made an impact for those students.
They would see those choices as something
that they were able to accomplish,
and it seemed more achievable to them.
So they felt more confident
leaving the math classroom.
And I would say that, biggest change
I've seen for some students
since I was too often
presented with behavioral challenges,
there was less attention
because they were allowed
to speak with their friend
that they needed to.
They were allowed to work on their own
if they needed to.
So that's behavior challenges for sure.
And then the productivity of the kids to
surprise you with what they will present
when given the opportunity
to work in the area of the environment
that allows them to be the most creative
and more confident, is showing what it is.